Red Hat, Inc. licenses Cygwin to you under the terms of the GNU
General Public License version 2 (GPLv2), as published by the Free
Software Foundation, along with the additional permissions given
below.

There is NO WARRANTY for this software, express or implied, including
the implied warranties of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. 

You should have received a copy of GPLv2 along with this program; if
not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.txt .


Additional Permissions:


1. Linking Exception.

As a special exception to GPLv2, Red Hat grants you permission to link
software whose sources are distributed under a license that satisfies
the Open Source Definition with libcygwin.a, without libcygwin.a
itself causing the resulting program to be covered by GPLv2.

This means that you can port an open source application to Cygwin, and
distribute that executable as if it didn't include a copy of
libcygwin.a linked into it.  Note that this does not apply to the
Cygwin DLL itself.  If you distribute a (possibly modified) version of
the DLL you must adhere to the terms of GPLv2, including the
requirement to provide sources for the Cygwin DLL.

See http://www.opensource.org/docs/osd/ for the precise Open Source
Definition referenced above.


2.  Files Excluded from GPL Coverage.

Red Hat grants you permission to distribute Cygwin with the following
files, which are not considered part of Cygwin and are not governed by
GPLv2, in source or binary form.

winsup\testsuite\winsup.api\msgtest.c
winsup\testsuite\winsup.api\semtest.c
winsup\testsuite\winsup.api\shmtest.c

Red Hat grants you permission to link or combine code in Cygwin with
code in or corresponding to the following files, which are not
considered part of Cygwin and are not governed by GPLv2, and to
distribute such combinations under terms of your choice, provided that
such terms are otherwise consistent with the application of GPLv2 to
Cygwin itself.  You must comply with GPLv2 with respect to all
portions of such combinations other than those that correspond to or
are derived from such non-Cygwin code but which do not correspond to
or are not derived from Cygwin itself.

winsup\cygserver\sysv_shm.cc


3.  Alternative License. 

Red Hat sells a special Cygwin License for customers who are unable to
provide their application in open source code form.  For more
information, please see: http://www.redhat.com/software/cygwin/, or call
+1-866-2REDHAT ext. 45300 (toll-free in the US).

Outside the US call your regional Red Hat office, see
http://www.redhat.com/about/contact/ww/
